OCPBUGS#32312: Adds missing mentions of service proxy in dynamic plugin docs (#74800)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/dynamic-plugin-proxy-service.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * web_console/dynamic-plugin/deploy-plugin-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="dynamic-plugin-proxy-service_{context}"]
= Plugin service proxy

> The plugin Operator creates a deployment on the platform with an HTTP server to host the plugin and expose it using a Kubernetes Service. The HTTP server serves all assets for the plugin, including JSON, JavaScript, CSS, and images. The `Service` must use HTTPS and a service serving certificate. The console backend will proxy the plugin assets from the `Service` using the service certificate authority (CA) bundle. Operators declare that they have a console plugin available by creating a cluster-scoped `ConsolePlugin` resource that includes information about the backend `service` `name`, `port`, and `basePath` used to access all of the plugin's assets.

Reviewer: This paragraph isn't directly relevant to the proxy and can be removed.

> If a plugin needs an in-cluster service, you can declare a service proxy in its `ConsolePlugin` resource using the `spec.proxy` array field. For each entry you must specify an endpoint and alias of the proxy under the `endpoint` and `alias` fields. For the Service proxy type, the endpoint `type` field will need to be set to `Service` and the `service` must include a `name`, `namespace`, and `port`. For example, `/api/proxy/plugin/helm/helm-charts/releases++?++limit++=++10` is a proxy request path from the `helm` plugin with a `helm-charts` service that lists ten helm releases.

Reviewer: "If a plugin needs to make HTTP requests to an in-cluster service...."

I would also add somewhere that the plugin needs to use the `consoleFetch` API to make the requests from its JavaScript code, otherwise some requests can fail. (PUT, POST, DELETE HTTP methods all require a CSRF token that `consoleFetch` adds, although this might be more detail than the user needs to know.) We should link to the API doc for `consoleFetch` if we can.

> The console backend exposes the `/api/proxy/plugin/<plugin-name>/<proxy-alias>/<request-path>++?++<optional-query-parameters>` endpoint to proxy the communication between plugin and the service. A proxied request uses a service CA bundle by default. The service must use HTTPS.

Reviewer: We should link to the service serving certificate topic here when mentioning the default service CA bundle.

Author: I can put CA service bundle in italics. I wish we could link it directly, but the way things are set up currently we aren't able to put xrefs in modules.

.Example
[source,text,subs="+quotes,+macros"]
----

> +`Authorization: Bearer sha256~kV46hPnEYhCWFnB85r5NrprAxggzgb6GOeLbgcKNsH0`+ <1>

Reviewer: This isn't a part of the ConsolePlugin resource, but an example request header that is sent from console as part of the plugin HTTP request to the target service.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * web_console/dynamic-plugin/deploy-plugin-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="dynamic-plugin-proxy-service_{context}"]
= Plugin service proxy

> You can declare a service proxy in its `ConsolePlugin` resource by using the `spec.proxy` array field if you need to make HTTP requests to an in-cluster service with your plugin. The console backend exposes the `/api/proxy/plugin/<plugin-name>/<proxy-alias>/<request-path>++?++<optional-query-parameters>` endpoint to proxy the communication between plugin and the service. A proxied request uses a _service CA bundle_ by default. The service must use HTTPS.

Reviewer 2: Consider flipping these clauses around (goal-first, might help with readability of a long sentence)
```suggestion
If you need to make HTTP requests to an in-cluster service with your plugin, you can declare a service proxy in its `ConsolePlugin` resource by using the `spec.proxy` array field. The console backend exposes the `/api/proxy/plugin/<plugin-name>/<proxy-alias>/<request-path>++?++<optional-query-parameters>` endpoint to proxy the communication between the plugin and the service. A proxied request uses a _service CA bundle_ by default. The service must use HTTPS.
```

> You can declare a service proxy in its `ConsolePlugin` resource by using the `spec.proxy` array field if you need to make HTTP requests to an in-cluster service with your plugin. The console backend exposes the `/api/proxy/plugin/<plugin-name>/<proxy-alias>/<request-path>++?++<optional-query-parameters>` endpoint to proxy the communication between plugin and the service. A proxied request uses a _service CA bundle_ by default. The service must use HTTPS.

Reviewer: Maybe add a quick explanation of why you'd want to do this somewhere (i.e., if your plugin needs to make a request to a service running on the cluster not exposed through a route).

[NOTE]
====

> The plugin must have the `consolefetch` API to make requests from its JavaScript code or some requests might fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin must use the `consolefetch` API to make requests from its JavaScript code or some requests might fail.
```

Reviewer: Would be nice to link directly to the API doc for this function if possible.

====

> For each entry you must specify an endpoint and alias of the proxy under the `endpoint` and `alias` fields. For the Service proxy type, the endpoint `type` field will need to be set to `Service` and the `service` must include a `name`, `namespace`, and `port`. For example, `/api/proxy/plugin/helm/helm-charts/releases++?++limit++=++10` is a proxy request path from the `helm` plugin with a `helm-charts` service that lists ten helm releases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For each entry, you must specify an endpoint and alias of the proxy under the `endpoint` and `alias` fields. For the Service proxy type, you must set the endpoint `type` field to `Service` and the `service` must include values for the `name`, `namespace`, and `port` fields. For example, `/api/proxy/plugin/helm/helm-charts/releases++?++limit++=++10` is a proxy request path from the `helm` plugin with a `helm-charts` service that lists ten helm releases.
```

> .Example

Reviewer 2: Worth being more specific?
```suggestion
.Example service proxy
```

Author: I like it

[source,text,subs="+quotes,+macros"]

> ----

Reviewer 2: Even though you're showing the `spec`, should include the [required API fields](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#required-fields) per docs guidelines. I am guessing this is not global, so probably just need the `apiVersion` and `kind` here.

Reviewer: > Even though you're showing the `spec`, should include the [required API fields](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#required-fields) per docs guidelines. I am guessing this is not global, so probably just need the `apiVersion` and `kind` here.

You'd want `metadata.name` as well

+# ...+
spec:
  proxy:
  - alias: helm-charts <1>
    authorization: UserToken <2>
    caCertificate: +'-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\nMIID....'en+ <3>
    endpoint: <4>
      service:
        name: <service-name>
        namespace: <service-namespace>
        port: <service-port>
      type: Service
+# ...+
----
<1> Alias of the proxy.

> <2> If the service proxy request needs to contain the logged-in user's OpenShift access token, the authorization field needs to be set to `UserToken`.

Reviewer 2: Also: double-check hardcoded "OpenShift" here

```suggestion
<2> If the service proxy request must contain the logged-in user's OpenShift access token, you must set the authorization field to `UserToken`.
```

<3> If the service uses a custom service CA, the `caCertificate` field must contain the certificate bundle.
<4> Endpoint of the proxy.
+
[NOTE]
====

> If the service proxy request does not contain the logged-in user's OpenShift access token, set the authorization field to `None`.

Reviewer 2: same check re "OpenShift" here

> ====

Reviewer 2: Since this note is about the authorization field, should it be tacked onto <2> instead of <4>?

[NOTE]
====
The plugin must use the `consolefetch` API to make requests from its JavaScript code or some requests might fail. For more information, see "Dynamic plugin API".
====

For each entry, you must specify an endpoint and alias of the proxy under the `endpoint` and `alias` fields. For the Service proxy type, you must set the endpoint `type` field to `Service` and the `service` must include values for the `name`, `namespace`, and `port` fields. For example, `/api/proxy/plugin/helm/helm-charts/releases++?++limit++=++10` is a proxy request path from the `helm` plugin with a `helm-charts` service that lists ten helm releases.

.Example service proxy
[source,YAML,subs="+quotes,+macros"]
----
apiVersion: console.openshift.io/v1
kind: ConsolePlugin
metadata:

>   name:<plugin-name>

Reviewer: Already merged I know, but you need a space after the `:` for this to be valid YAML

```
name: <plugin-name>
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * web_console/dynamic-plugin/deploy-plugin-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="dynamic-plugin-proxy-service_{context}"]
= Plugin service proxy

> If you need to make HTTP requests to an in-cluster service with your plugin, you can declare a service proxy in its `ConsolePlugin` resource by using the `spec.proxy` array field. For example, if you need to make a request to a service running on the cluster that is not exposed through a route. The console backend exposes the `/api/proxy/plugin/<plugin-name>/<proxy-alias>/<request-path>++?++<optional-query-parameters>` endpoint to proxy the communication between the plugin and the service. A proxied request uses a _service CA bundle_ by default. The service must use HTTPS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to make HTTP requests to an in-cluster service from your plugin, you can declare a service proxy in its `ConsolePlugin` resource by using the `spec.proxy` array field. The console backend exposes the `/api/proxy/plugin/<plugin-name>/<proxy-alias>/<request-path>++?++<optional-query-parameters>` endpoint to proxy the communication between the plugin and the service. A proxied request uses a _service CA bundle_ by default. The service must use HTTPS.
```

I'd take the second sentence out. It's largely redundant.

[NOTE]
====
The plugin must use the `consolefetch` API to make requests from its JavaScript code or some requests might fail. For more information, see "Dynamic plugin API".
====

For each entry, you must specify an endpoint and alias of the proxy under the `endpoint` and `alias` fields. For the Service proxy type, you must set the endpoint `type` field to `Service` and the `service` must include values for the `name`, `namespace`, and `port` fields. For example, `/api/proxy/plugin/helm/helm-charts/releases++?++limit++=++10` is a proxy request path from the `helm` plugin with a `helm-charts` service that lists ten helm releases.

.Example service proxy
[source,text,subs="+quotes,+macros"]
----

> +# ...+

Reviewer 2: Now that you have the beginning of the YAML, you no longer needs this (nothing is omitted unless I am missing something specific to this file, but probably not... they all have p similar beginnings)
```suggestion
```

apiVersion: console.openshift.io/v1
kind: ConsolePlugin
metadata:

>   name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: <plugin-name>
```
